---
uid: Corvus.Identity.ClientAuthentication
summary: *content
---

Abstractions for obtaining access tokens suitable for use as Bearer tokens in HTTP Authorization headers. This does not presume any particular source of tokens. It is designed to work with systems such as Azure Managed Identities, but will work with any system in which a service has some ambient identity of its own.

The [`IServiceIdentityAccessTokenSource`](xref:Corvus.Identity.ClientAuthentication.IServiceIdentityAccessTokenSource) interface provides a way to obtain access tokens that represent the running service's own identity. (E.g., for a service running in Azure in a context that provides a Managed Identity, this provides a way to obtain tokens that to perform outbound HTTP requests authenticating as that Managed Identity.) Implementations of this interface are typically acquired through dependency injection. For example, if you want to use an Azure Managed Identity, the [`AddServiceIdentityAzureTokenCredentialSourceFromAzureCoreTokenCredential`](xref:Microsoft.Extensions.DependencyInjection.AzureIdentityServiceCollectionExtensions.AddServiceIdentityAzureTokenCredentialSourceFromAzureCoreTokenCredential(Microsoft.Extensions.DependencyInjection.IServiceCollection,Azure.Core.TokenCredential)) or [`AddServiceIdentityAzureTokenCredentialSourceFromLegacyConnectionString`](xref:Microsoft.Extensions.DependencyInjection.AzureIdentityServiceCollectionExtensions.AddServiceIdentityAzureTokenCredentialSourceFromLegacyConnectionString*) extension methods for [`IServiceCollection`](xref:Microsoft.Extensions.DependencyInjection.IServiceCollection) will make a suitable implementation available.

This namespace's abstractions are suitable for code that wants to work directly at the HTTP level (e.g., via [`HttpClient`](xref:System.Net.Http.HttpClient)), but if you are using an Azure SDK client library (or anything else based on the [`Azure.Core`](xref:Azure.Core) components), the more specialized [`IServiceIdentityAzureTokenCredentialSource`](xref:Corvus.Identity.ClientAuthentication.Azure.IServiceIdentityAzureTokenCredentialSource) in the [`Corvus.Identity.ClientAuthentication.Azure`](xref:Corvus.Identity.ClientAuthentication.Azure) namespace might be more appropriate. And if you are using older libraries based on the [`Microsoft.Rest`](xref:Microsoft.Rest) namespace, there's an equivalent [`IServiceIdentityMicrosoftRestTokenProviderSource`](xref:Corvus.Identity.ClientAuthentication.MicrosoftRest.IServiceIdentityMicrosoftRestTokenProviderSource) in the [`Corvus.Identity.ClientAuthentication.MicrosoftRest`](xref:Corvus.Identity.ClientAuthentication.MicrosoftRest) namespace.