# `Corvus.Identity` API reference

The [`Corvus.Identity.ClientAuthentication` namespace](xref:Corvus.Identity.ClientAuthentication) defines abstractions for obtaining access tokens. [`IServiceIdentityAccessTokenSource`](xref:Corvus.Identity.ClientAuthentication.IServiceIdentityAccessTokenSource) provides access tokens enabling code running as a service to authenticate using the service identity. Types in this namespace are not specific to any particular technology (e.g., they do not presume anything about how a service identity is implemented, nor how the tokens will be used). Use this when writing components that need to authenticate as the running service, when you don't want to commit to any specific mechanism for doing so.

The [`Corvus.Identity.ClientAuthentication.Azure` namespace](xref:Corvus.Identity.ClientAuthentication.Azure) should be used by components or applications that need to use the `Azure.Core` authentication mechanism introduced in the 2019 redesign of the Azure SDK. This namespace provides the following:

* A specialized access token source type, [`IServiceIdentityAzureTokenCredentialSource`](xref:Corvus.Identity.ClientAuthentication.Azure.IServiceIdentityAzureTokenCredentialSource), suitable for use with `Azure.Core`-based libraries (e.g., Azure SDK libraries introduced after the 2019 redesign)
* Implementations of [`IServiceIdentityAccessTokenSource`](xref:Corvus.Identity.ClientAuthentication.IServiceIdentityAccessTokenSource) and [`IServiceIdentityAzureTokenCredentialSource`](xref:Corvus.Identity.ClientAuthentication.Azure.IServiceIdentityAzureTokenCredentialSource) based on `Azure.Identity`

The [`Corvus.Identity.ClientAuthentication.MicrosoftRest` namespace](xref:Corvus.Identity.ClientAuthentication.MicrosoftRest) should be used by components or applications that need to use the old `Microsoft.Rest` mechanisms for authentication (e.g. Azure SDK libraries written before the 2019 redesign). It can be used in conjunction with types from the [`Corvus.Identity.ClientAuthentication.Azure` namespace](xref:Corvus.Identity.ClientAuthentication.Azure) in applications that need to used a mixture of client library types. This namespace provides the following:

* A specialized access token source type, [`IServiceIdentityMicrosoftRestTokenProviderSource`](xref:Corvus.Identity.ClientAuthentication.MicrosoftRest.IServiceIdentityMicrosoftRestTokenProviderSource), suitable for use with `Microsoft.Rest`-based libraries (e.g., Azure SDK libraries written before the 2019 redesign)
* A wrapper type, [`ServiceIdentityMicrosoftRestTokenProvider`] that implements the `ITokenProvider` interface required by `Microsoft.Rest`-based libraries on top of the [`IServiceIdentityAccessTokenSource` interface](xref:Corvus.Identity.ClientAuthentication.IServiceIdentityAccessTokenSource) defined by the `Corvus.Identity.Abstractions` component

The [`Corvus.Identity.ManagedServiceIdentity.ClientAuthentication` namespace](xref:Corvus.Identity.ManagedServiceIdentity.ClientAuthentication) contains legacy types and should not be used by new code. These types were designed before the 2019 redesign of the Azure SDK, and are only suitable for use with applications that live entirely in that old world. The newer [`Corvus.Identity.ClientAuthentication.MicrosoftRest` namespace](xref:Corvus.Identity.ClientAuthentication.MicrosoftRest) namespace described above supports the same scenarios, but also provides a migration path to working with client libraries that use the newer style the Azure SDK started to introduce in 2019.